yeah let's start slowly let's wait about
everyone to come because the topic today
is a very important one um I know many
people have a lot of questions about
getting admitted to the universities and
they're asking what should I submit in
my application uh where is all the
information about the exams I need to
take what are recommendation letters
what is a personal statement so I'm
going to explain everything today in
this live stream and you would also have
an opportunity to ask me questions um
yeah this is one of the sounds my dog is
making um yeah so let us start with like
for a small introduction by the way guys
if you are on YouTube right now if you
could please go to language rips website
so there's a link um in this chat um I
just posted it and there is also a link
below the video so if you could follow
it and ask a question on language of
subside I'll explain why because the
chat is moving too quickly and I feel
that only were true um I will be able to
scroll and pay attention to every single
question so if you could go to that web
page and ask your question there um and
you can ask your questions throughout
the webinar I will be answering them
once I finish on several parts uh but
the first question is from me to you uh
please let me know um when are you
applying to the American American
University and um please also tell me
what is the program you're applying to
is it masters it is is it bachelors is
it MBA so um yeah just let me know
because then I would out somebody saying
waiting I think you need to reload the
page because I've already started yeah
let please let me know um
when will you be a blind and foolish
program so for example I will be
applying this September form
yeah I see 71 people great I think there
was this lag in the live stream Hey
hello everyone yeah so bachelors um hi
hi um
when so I'm going to be talking about
deadlines as well but if you have any
plan um that you have in your mind like
for example you want to start a
university that your studies in 2018 I
will let you know when is the best time
to apply a master's in mechanical
engineering okay um yeah I'm looking
forward to also receiving comments on
language tips page the link is below and
this is where I will actually be reading
the comments um so yeah uh - Arizona
hello Harry zona um okay so yeah I'm
just um right now I'm collecting your
answers which program you're applying to
and when do you want to start so yeah I
see Sarah um wants to sad bachelor's in
architecture in 2019 I've also seen some
people um said they are gonna do masters
um see I please Masters in 2018 perfect
and yeah I'm actually reading this guy's
again I'm actually reading this on
language of subside not on YouTube and
if you could follow the link I left
below the video
um and leave your comment there I would
really appreciate it because as I said
if you if you could have seen the
comments on YouTube they're going really
fast and really want to pay attention to
every single question bachelor's degree
in mechanical engineering okay so we
have both badges and masters I'm looking
for more answers master's computer
science masters
okay so bachelor's and master's oh well
okay there are a lot of similarities
between masters and bachelors so many
things that I will be talking about
actually applied to both um but I wanted
to start with actually showing you a
screen of um mi t--'s admissions website
so I think you're gonna see it now yeah
here we go
so this is MIT admissions for freshman
applicants and this is for bachelors so
we're going to start with bachelors and
then I'm going to gradually go to
masters and I will be comparing both all
the time um as you know for both
bachelor's and master's they're to two
or three different deadlines so MIT has
two deadlines for
for the bachelors obligations they have
a early action and regular action and
very often people ask me what's the
difference so for many universities
early action means that if you apply
during round one the early action you
cannot apply to other universities and
if that university accepts you then you
kind of obliged to drop off all of your
applications but again this is just good
manner this is not something um the
universities control there is this
common application which can control it
but if you apply in today up to a
university directly and you get accepted
in the early action
you still can't maintain like physically
maintain your applications but this is
not what the rules are so if you apply
during the early action normally the
university would ask you to withdraw all
of the other application it may accept
you but um MIT does not have this
restriction just in case you're
wondering and there is also regular
action where you can apply to as many
universities as you can you don't have
to drop any universities if you got
accepted to others um there again there
are different universities different
rules personally I think that it is
better to apply during the earliest
deadlines and there are a couple of
reasons why um I'm gonna show myself
back on the screen yeah so um there are
several reasons why I think it's
important to apply during the first
deadline first because the class is
empty so there are no people at all in
the class because they just started
receiving the applications also
sometimes universities look for
particular types of students for example
this is very particular for MBA for
example an MBA class they say we're
going to have like 40% people from
consulting 30% people from finance women
have 10% entrepreneurs um this doesn't
really apply to bachelors but sometimes
that also happens and for example if
during the first deadline they received
40% of applications from consultants and
they accept them uh that means that
during the second round they would not
really be interested in looking at
consultants application and if you're a
consultant this means you have less
chances of getting
accepted in the second round oh but
there are also exclusions so for example
you're taking your GRE and your masters
has the first application of silver and
the second application January and you
think oh wow if I take this two extra
months to improve my GRE score and you
work confidently you're gonna score like
20 points more like for example you had
310 now and you think that if I'm going
to give it an extra push I'm gonna score
330 and if you know the maximum Jerry is
340 then this really makes difference so
these 20 points really make a difference
and they are a great excuse to apply
tearing the later round but um again
this is my personal advice many people
have different approach to this but I
think you should not apply during the
third round because this decreases your
chances of getting accepted dramatically
so sometimes the universities don't even
have the third round but sometimes they
do and the third round is normally like
March or April and in a year um in the
year before you want to start you study
so it's like six months prior to the
beginning of studies and I would say in
top universities the class would be 90%
full so yeah um if you are concerned
about deadlines I would apply either
round one around to my story I applied
in the round two and this is not because
I had this calculation my mind is just
because I decided to apply to American
universities in October and so I have
like I knew that the second deadline
would be January and that man that I
only had November in December to prepare
for my GMAT and TOEFL and do all the
application research all the
universities which is really tough in
terms of timing Excel so worked and I
had to travel so um yeah I do not to
that it's better to plan but again um I
applied during the round to I applied to
top universities as well like I'd like
to Johns Hopkins which is considered top
and I would still get accepted still
managed to get my Fulbright scholarship
so everything is possible
but do not make um the application
process more complicated just because
you think oh I'll just wait a couple
more months so everything has to be
really well reasoned
so if you are postponing your decision
until their own - then it should really
make sense because you're like scoring
extra 30 points do you mind yeah let me
go so yeah as you see I'm going to be
talking like about one topic and I'm
going to be talking about particular
applications bachelor's master's MBA by
the way if you don't know what MBA is
MBA is also master's because some people
tell me oh can I do my MBA if I don't
have masters you don't have to have
masters to do MBA this MBA is Masters of
Business Administration um
yeah by the way if there are any page D
students I'm not talking about PhD right
now yeah I'm going to my um yeah and see
some comments here um if there are any
PhD students please wave and say hey I'm
applying for PhD because there are um
they're slightly different processes and
then I will talk about PhD as well but
right now only see bachelor's and
master's around you among you guys and
I'm also glad that we are at 160 people
right now which is great so yeah masters
masters Australia okay perfect um let's
go on to the next parts of the
application again I am going back to MIT
s website um let's do that okay so um
what is actually there in the
application so now we have our deadline
let's see let's decide we're playing in
early action okay what do I need for
that early action every University has
its a questionnaire uh which will ask
you your biographical information um
this is really straightforward like well
Oh what they ask like um we were born
your phone number address but then they
also ask where did your parents go to
school because if they went to some
maybe the same school with something
they would note that in the application
they would also ask what was your
previous education in here um they would
also ask how you're going to fund your
application at MIT for some ice or
education MIT and this is when people
ask me oh how do they know I need
financial aid so they see at
your application they see how you
finance your previous application for
example in my case um higher education
in Russia is free on but they're also
like paid places but my education was
free so I said I finance it was like
scholarship grants from the government
because they actually paid for my
education and they also asked me how I
am going to pay for my education and I
said I will be relying on you
financially so again um they will ask
your parents information as I said uh
they would ask you about your field of
study um another thing that you guys
need to remember is the application fee
it's everywhere every single University
you would need to play in applicate out
to pay an application fee sorry I'm
gonna return myself here um yeah and
back so application fee sometimes people
ask me oh Marina can apply to 30
universities at a time and here's my
answer
yes you can nobody prohibits you from
applying to hundreds of universities but
there are several costs associated with
applying to every single University
first is actually your time because for
every single University you would need
to prepare a personal statement which
should be different you cannot just
write on personal statement and just
send it to all of the universities you
have to make it personal so if you're
writing about MIT if you're applying to
MIT you need to highlight professors you
need to highlight why you're going to
that particular school so it's not like
just sending out a template um so time
is very consuming and I would say like I
was able to only justice applications
after that I would be like I don't know
I wouldn't have time for eating or
sleeping if I had more universities
second is this application fee as you've
just seen MIT charges $75 per
application um if you if you go to more
expensive programs like masters or MBA
for example to the highest application
fee I've seen is is um Stanford's
application fee for the MBA program and
it's around two hundred six $275 so any
of your blends are like five MBA
programs that means you end up paying
two thousand dollars in application fees
but there's a life hack um so um oh by
the way why what else I will continue
about the cost to apply into every
single University and then it will tell
you the life hack so um let's talking
about the third costs of first time
second is application fees third you
will need to submit your exam score to
every single University so for example
will say um I don't know I'm you're
blind to ten universities TOEFL only
allows you to send four results for free
which means you pay extra for six
universities because you're applying to
ten and every extra result costs $19 to
sent and if you if you took a GMAT
you're allowed to send you GMAT score to
five schools for free and if you're
applying to ten that means you have to
pay extra twenty eight dollars for a
result that you're sending to a
different school again this is waste
when you start funding up your expenses
and you can end up paying like three
thousand dollars for your application
process um so really make sure you
applying to the best universities that
fit your budget that um fit in terms of
your academic background and you have
high chance of getting into uh and
here's the life hack
um actually some universities provide
application fee waivers um sometimes
they say um that you can apply um for an
application fee waiver through like the
application that you're submitting uh
but sometimes they have um certain rules
for waiving your application fee for
example you are from um you know US
military they would likely to waive your
application but sometimes they just
don't care sometimes they waive your
application based on your GMAT or GRE or
SAT scores and what you can do like what
I did when I got 700 on GMAT I reached
out to every single University that I
wanted to apply to and I said hey my
GMAT is 700 I was wondering if you have
an application fee waivers for
applicants like me with a pretty high
GMAT score because the average GMAT at
for example the University of Florida
for my program was I think six hundred
seventy so is way above
the average and they said well we really
appreciate that you're applying to our
University with the score um less wave
your application fee but by the way the
fee at the University of Florida was
just $30 I think Johns Hopkins was the
highest University of the of the most
expensive university that waived my
application fee
I think their fee was around ninety or
hundred dollars so you can always use
this life hack we use it once you have
all of your scores um and don't just go
around like asking for application fee
waiver without any reason you have to
really have a reason behind asking
university to waive your feet and
sometimes also like the first thing you
should do is actually go to the
university's website and read all of the
information that they tale tell about
the application fee waiver because top
schools like Harvard Stanford MIT they
say that um we do not waive application
fees except for members of US military
for example and if they have that phrase
on their website there's no point in
writing them again and telling you
please uh waiver application fees so
that's no gonna work um let's go back to
the application so we've done the
biographical information now essays
activities academics so essay personal
statement um it's the same for um like
it doesn't matter which program you
applying to either it's bachelors or
masters or PhD you will need to tell the
university that um you here's what they
say um spend a little um nothing so why
so why have you selected this particular
University who you are what drives you
what's important to you what makes you
tick be honest be open be authentic this
is your opportunity to connect with us
um and I wanted to highlight this once
again so all your application the whole
piece of it is actually a lot of numbers
and facts um your SAT score you total
score Ujima Jerry whatever you're taking
um you're more experienced or your
previous education
but personal statement or motivation
letter or whatever they call it is the
only chance for the admissions committee
to see a person behind you to see
situations and people and books that
affected you affected you a choice of
getting to this particular University
and this is something you have to pay
attention to again make it really
personal make it um
honest show yourself why are you
applying to America why are you in I
don't India right now why would you go
to the states why would you go to this
university why travel like 12 hours on a
plane leave your family behind
they also a lot of money for educational
life in the States or if you're applying
for a scholarship
why are you able to compete for it um
like this is your chance to talk to the
admissions committee as a person not
like as a set of numbers or set of facts
set of work experience so please please
please pay a lot of attention to your
essay and what I actually wanted to tell
you is that essay in my opinion again
this is my theory can be different from
yours um but I think that essays are 30%
of your application so we have your
biographical info which is 30% we have
your test scores which are another 30%
we have your essays um and your
motivation behind getting in a
particular University another 30% and
then we have your letters of
recommendations there's a recommendation
for 10% um okay let's go
next I'm going to um yeah so uh this is
the majority of your application let me
see if you see me I'm sorry guys I have
to click between the windows so um and
then uh what else you need to submit you
will need to submit your transcripts
which means you have to report your
grades from your high school or from
your bachelor's degree it depends on the
program you're applying to um and
letters of recommendation again this is
different from a university to
University for example MIT requires your
Commendation room two teachers one math
or science one humanities
um if we talk
Stanford MBA they required two
professional recommendations and they
really want to see a managers or
commendation
some schools RK was one academic
reference and one business reference so
again you really need to dig into the
admissions section of the university
you're applying to and really read into
what they want to see I know there are
situations when you don't want to tell
your manager that you're applying for a
master's abroad and you're gonna leave a
company in six months um if I were you I
would tell my manager um because it's
very good for the company to plan ahead
and they wouldn't blame the lady if you
do not get accepted they understand and
they would be happy if you did not get
accepted and if you stay with them so
again if I were you I would tell my boss
um if you have the situation that if you
tell you get fired then don't tell your
boss but try to get a recommendation
letter from your workplace maybe it's
your colleague maybe it's your partner
maybe it's your client but some business
schools really want to see that
professional letter of recommendation uh
and um one of the last things but not
the least and the very time-consuming
thing our test scores again um if you
are new to this topic and if you're
looking at me for the first time right
now you might be wondering why am I
saying all of those weird words like SAT
Jerri Juma TOEFL IELTS whatever so I'm
going to go through all of them and
explain what that means
um again you don't know if you're an
international student you have to take
one of these either TOEFL or IELTS TOEFL
is an American test and I would suggest
if you're applying to America take TOEFL
if you're thinking between Canada
America Great Britain it's it's safer to
take IELTS because IELTS is um accepted
in Great Britain there are some
universities in the state's the do not
accept Isles unfortunately but they're
not that many the majority would accept
Isles so this is if you're an
international student or even if you're
American we have some clients that are
American they have American passports
but they went to school in different
country they grew up in a different
country even in that case you would need
to take TOEFL or IELTS because the only
um way for you to wait the
exams is to prove that you've had two
years of education in English in an
english-speaking country if you don't
have those then you have to take it the
TOEFL or IELTS and here's an important
thing every University has the minimum
that they allow you so for example they
say your total should be minimum on
whatever 90 and if you score 89
unfortunately you would not get accepted
and they would not even consider your
application because your English
language level is below the requirement
sometimes you can email them and say hey
I only require one point could you
please let me retake the test but that
doesn't work if you're applying to a top
school they would just reject your
application but there are some
universities that would say um yeah for
example for example you score like 85
and they say okay we're 190 but you know
what um you can come to our University
and summer pay for an English language
course for foreign students and we would
be able to accept you after that that
would also work but I think it's worth
um taking TOEFL and scoring something
that you needed to score um and by the
way if you are unsure of your TOEFL
unsure of your IELTS and you think that
your English is not enough to go to the
state or to Canon or whatever right now
um we also have like preparation courses
when you can come to the States for
example actually live one block away
from Catalan language school and you can
go there for example and take your
academic preparation class and take a
pathway program for example after five a
program if you do well in it you can
apply to universities without taking a
language exam this is a completely
different topic and if you're interested
in it you can write your question below
and I could pay more attention to those
pathway programs at the end of the
webinar
but there is this opportunity I wouldn't
say like MIT and Harvard Stem work with
those benefit programs but universities
like Florida International University
Santa Monica College um I don't know who
else who else is popular uh like um
sunny colleges in New York they would
work with those programs um yeah so this
is this
the information for language test the
next information is about the
information about other tests so SAT or
a CT are the tests that you need to take
if you're applying to a bachelor's
program again these are not required by
all of the universities because the
there are some universities they
wouldn't even require an SAT day which
is required TOEFL for example again for
International University I'm not sure
about all of the programs there are some
programs that do not require SAT SAT
tests you grammar
sorry just your maths and a really low
level like if you are if you were good
at maths new school I say to you would
be super easy for you um and they also
test your writing skills and the um your
ability to understand academic text and
make right decisions based on what you
read make the right choices
um and SAT and a CT are slightly
different for international students I
recommend taking SAT because um there is
more maths and less verbal this is the
first thing and the second a CT actually
asks you questions from American high
school program they might ask you for
some definitions or some formulas um
that you don't want to spend your time
on um and if again because we were
talking about MIT there are some
universities that would also require a
subject test for example MIT says that
apart from taking your SAT you will need
to take at least two subject tests for
example SAT maths and SAT biology but
this is only for top universities as I
said there's like if you go to Santa
Monica College for example you do not
need to take a city just a TOEFL or
sometimes it's just even don't need to
take TOEFL um you do the language course
um in the university itself um so and
then um what else um other exams
if you are applying to a master's degree
that is um in the sphere of economics
then you take GMAT so you don't take SAT
you just take TOEFL and GMAT there are
also programs in economics that do not
require GMAT they tend to be lower
ranking programs
and if you are applying for some kind of
financial aid I would strongly recommend
taking all the tests that the university
requires and even if they do not require
them and you still want to financial aid
I would take cheerio GMAT because that
shows your academic ability I guess
another up like incentive for a
university to give you scholarship
because you need to score well in those
exams and by well I mean in theory you
need to score more than 310 HG money in
you to score more than 700 or at least
700 to show that you are above on all of
the applicants because financially it is
awarded to the top applicants um and
yeah and the GRE is the exam that is
taken if you're applying to a master's
degree that is not connected to
economics like masters and physics
masters in biology master's and
psychology masters in computer science
this is cherry this is a test that tests
your academic abilities in terms of
analyzing texts um understanding very
complicated academic structures and
understanding words that I used in
academic topics um so yeah these were
the tests and I think the last thing I
wanted to talk about is the interview
and and yes I have passed um three
interviews one of them was live two of
them were on skype normally top
universities would ask you to travel to
America and take the interview in person
because they want to see in person and
they think if your um seriously our
budget education you will come some
universities just interview over Skype
and they wouldn't ask you a specific
question in my case I was asked like
what are your plans for the future how
have you been um since the application
what's going on in your life so it's
very easy just to make sure you actually
speak English that you are who you are
you are the person who talked about in
your application and that you are nice
and outgoing and I can support a
conversation in English I'm super
important um so yeah um and if if there
is interview if not every University
conducts interviews sometimes they just
give you a decision after you apply um
and they would normally take around one
month to release the decision support
if you apply in November you should know
whether you're accepted or not by the
end of December easy if you apply in
January you're going to know all of the
decisions by the end of February so this
was my fast um explanation of college
and university applications I think now
it's time for your questions because I
know there are loads and loads of them
again on YouTube I see so many question
guys um and I would actually ask you to
UM go to linguae trips website um I'm
gonna leave a link below again um in the
chat and there is also a link below the
video any paper ask a question there
that would be great because I am going
to linguae trips website following the
link that I've just given you and I'm
going to read the questions from there
there are only thirty questions which
means I'm gonna pay attention to every
single one and if you want me to pay
attention to your question please PLEASE
clean go to link your subset and if you
don't mind I will um take a quick sip of
tea because I've been talking for a
while now oh okay oh there are actually
40 comments okay um let's see I'm in
tenth grade should I um take SAT test
now what would be the benefits if I take
it now I
so SAT test doesn't have a deadline for
example if you sorry none other like
expiration date for example if you take
TOEFL it would only be valid for two
years GMAT would be valid for five years
to valid for five years I say to you
would be valid for your whole life so if
you're feeling you're prepared right now
um please take the test um so for me the
only criteria to take the test or not to
take the test is when you take practice
tests at home and you see that you
scored exactly what your dream
University requires so you you can just
take SAT because you want to take SAT
you need to have the list of the
universities um you need to make sure
you have the right deadlines you know
what's the average SAT of students who
got accepted last year and then you take
a couple of practice SAT tests at home
and then you go ahead and take them and
take the test so whenever you're ready
um you can take it now it means that you
have more time to concentrate in your
motivation letters and your
recommendation letters I'm planning to
get into MBA from CSU fortune in 2018
what is the best time to apply um so the
best thing you should do is actually go
to CSU Fullerton on admission section MB
admission section I guess for MBAs
normally the first round would be in
September October November so this fall
and I was just applying during the round
one I'm sure they have the second
deadline in January or February but
again I was just blind wrong one if you
feel that you would be able to take it
to Matt and all this because again
before you apply you will need to take
all of your tests because when you're
applying you're already listing the
results you've managed to score on those
tests you're going to say hey I scored
100 out of 120 and TOEFL I scored in a
1300 and SAT so you need to have taken
your tests
before you click that submit button on
the application section of your
University greetings from Egypt hello um
tell me I'm making a video how do you do
you arrange all that by yourself either
in Germany or the UK how do you manage
find family to stay with uh so yeah I
arranged everything myself uh how up in
Germany so with Germany there was this
program between my University in Germany
University um in the UK I went there to
a language school and actually if you
are asking Omar is asking this question
on language tips website if you click
the lingua chirp logo um up there um you
can select the English in London so from
the drop-down menu you can select that
you want to learn English in the UK and
you will see the school called UIC um um
this is the school where I went and they
arranged the family for me and if you
books or language if you get extra
discount and this is basically my
business this why this is why I build it
because when I traveled I had to do
everything myself
and I spent a lot of time researching
schools and trying to contact them
because they never applied too fast
um and with language herb you were able
to get exclusive discounts which means
that if you go directly to school
you will get a high price looking
through lingual chip is easier and
faster and yeah this is how you can
organize your trip anywhere like Germany
oh you're asking about Germany wax you
have my school bws German lingua also
cheaper than directive school yeah if
you select your in Germany I would be
happy if you look through a lingua trip
like you something like every booking
that comes in what is my head because
this is what I do every time um right
now I want to start my TOEFL preparation
what would I stop from um test your
English language level um I would say if
you're applying for the university of
college your English should be upper
intermediate if it's lower and there is
no point in preparing for TOEFL um the
only thing you should do right now then
is just make sure your English is um
above ah intermediate so test your
English if it's upper intermediate then
get a TOEFL textbook and I'm sorry doing
the tasks that they give you by the way
guys are a tradition if you're enjoying
this live stream please don't forget to
like it is out we have 156 people
watching right now and only 66 like try
the thing that ninety people I'm not
enjoying the live stream if you do um
don't forget to like this video on um
the youtubes page thank you so much I
want to do masters in computer science
and you say but I'm not done with my job
yet it's like five eighteen months
contract with company what I was
supposed to do oh but you apply for your
program uh a year before it starts so if
you have five months to go you can apply
any time you be still if you want to
start your masters in September 2018 you
need to apply now there is no well there
are some programs that you can apply to
right now and starting September 2017
but this won't be the best universities
in the state because the best
universities already closed their
application bounds hello from Tennessee
hello nice to see you here um I wanted
to know if I can get transfer to finish
Swedish German universities that have
medical faculties in English ah this is
something you need to ask at the
University directly
sometimes they in the States they allow
you to transfer but um not with all the
subject so um the way you can transfer
your credits is for example you are
doing a medical studies and you're doing
like organic chemistry organic biology
of 20 hours of labs um whatever is
psychology class and you are finally
university in the States it suits you
and you see there's chemic chemical or
ganic biology on their schedule as well
and what you do you contact the
admissions office and say can you please
um transfer my credits and they will ask
you what books are you using for those
subjects and if the books are the same
if the program is the same they would be
able to transfer some of them not all of
them definitely but from medical is
really really complicated because I'm
sure the books is different so we had a
couple of students who transferred they
were from Ukraine and a top university
in Ukraine top university in Russia they
were able to transfer to MIT and they
were doing computer science something
that is universal so coding language
like C++ or Java whatever they I
universal languages and if you study
them in the Ukraine you're easily um
transferred to MIT because it's pretty
much the same but unfortunately with
medical stuff it's completely different
and I think the medical system in every
country is different how can I find
scholarships from us um so if you're
looking for scholarships there's
actually I can show you as well let me
take you back to the MIT s website um so
um I'm taking you back to MIT s website
and what you need to find here is a Ford
um and uh cost so it can be called costs
and aid financial aid um so uh the first
thing you need to put okay this is this
I'm not going to I don't want to make it
more complicated for you like explain
you'd lend me base but um what they say
here is that they provide financial
support based on your income uh
they're also like merit-based which
means that they give scholarships based
on your academic achievements so for
example let me show you this so again um
types of financial aid really depends of
on the university so um you need to
research every single University there
is no such thing that like a website
which would tell you where you can get
scholarships you need to explore every
single University so for example um
University of Florida provides this
these scholarships for um international
students five thousand a year for um
presidential scholarship this
presidential golf scholarship they're
also out-of-state scholarships so um and
this is called scholarship section so
tuition fees scholarships and every
single University has this section what
you need to do you need to explore it um
you need to calculate your budget
calculate the total cost of the
university and assess how much financial
aid you need and again please remember
that it's not just because you're
applying they're going to provide
financial aid you need to prove that you
are extraordinary an applicant so um if
we talk for example about university of
florida we have a couple of bachelor
students who received teaching
assistantship therefore their bachelor
studies which is really rare and for
example they have professors they had
incoming classes like four hundred
people but only ten go for financial aid
and those ten were the best four masters
it's easier for masters you say like for
example hundred people are attending
class like at least ninety gets some
kind of financial aid because there are
loads and loads of grants and discounts
um and there is a good chance that ten
or twenty people are receiving full
financial assistance so again really
depends on the program um and if you
guys are interested in learning more
about like scholarships and merit-based
whatever if you have more questions
there is a link to UM look okay let me
see if I'm like sorry and I'm just
switching between between the screens
and I want to make sure you see me
okay sorry for that okay um but yeah um
so yeah if you are interested in
learning more about um your own
application asking me the questions but
yourself there's a green button below
that will allow you to book consultation
with me um but um I will actually also
warn you because there is really high
demand right now the next available
consultation would be let me see um next
available consultation will be balloon
July uh twelve because sometimes people
book and they're like oh my god I have
to wait a month yes unfortunately the
demand is too high and there is well
it's very unfortunate for me but um
there is a big line right now um okay
let's go on to the next question I'm a
permanent resident is GMAT mandatory um
so yeah if the university states that
they would not accept your application
without GMAT then GMAT is mandatory for
everyone doesn't matter if your
international permanent resident citizen
whatever um
there is no I don't know the percentage
of universities that demand it so you
need to go to again research your
universities again guys I will always so
the research is so so so important um
you need to make your research you need
to make sure that um the universities
you're applying to um you are a good fit
for them in terms of GMAT in terms your
average grade in terms your English I'm
preparing for Gmail for the full 2018
for a master's program how can I get
them excellence in terms of appalachia
Weber Cosby okay this is a very generic
question again you need your research
what kind of scholarships they provide
you need to research if they have full
financial aid covering your
accommodation for it etc the ticket
costs are normally not covered so um you
need to be prepared even if you're
saving full financial assistance you
need to be prepared to have at least I
am around three to four thousand dollars
um to apply to university because again
there are application fees there are
flight costs there is deposit that we
would need to pay there is this program
called opportunity award there is this
program mode Opportunity award and it's
awarded by education USA um I don't know
whether your country has it I know mine
did um and what happened to me is I want
that opportunity award you need to go to
the education USA website select
opportunity award and see if it's in
your country so what I did apply to i
had to provide the universities that I
want to apply to I needed to compare
myself with current students and um they
wanted me the scholarship that covered
all of the application fees all the exam
costs and the there was this condition
if I got full financial assistance they
would pay for my ticket for my flight
and it would also give me some money for
the first months of my life in the
United States which is really helpful so
if you feel again if you feel that you
are able to get full financial
assistance from the University I'm sure
you're a you would be able to get the
opportunity board it's pretty
straightforward I know that not many
people know about it but if you do know
about it and you submit your application
and you are academically performing well
I mean you are in top ten percent of
your class you know exactly which
universities you're applying to and you
know the unis score a high score on a
standardized test and a standardized
test chimicherry or SAT um then you have
really high
um chances of getting this opportunity
award um does financial background of an
applicant play a role in the process of
getting me dipped in a b-school again
this is a really good question and this
is um what I thought it's too specific
but I'm going to tell you they're in
need-blind universities need-blind means
that if you stayed in your application
that you don't want money for your
education you're going to apply for
financial aid they would still consider
you and they would not pay attention to
the fact that you need that financial
support um but they're also need of
we're institutions and I had this client
I was who's not actually client he just
did
rotation and then he applied to five
schools that I needed where and of
course because he stated that we are and
where if you say that you need money
from us we're going to take this into
consideration and his application wasn't
strong enough and he gonna retract it
from all five just because he stated you
needed financial aid so make sure that
if you are not a strong candidate you
think that your SAT is a little lower
than the average so make sure you're
blind to need blind schools that provide
need blind financial aid for
international students but those are
like Harvard and Stanford type of
schools you cannot apply to top 200
schools and um like school it is top 200
and rely on its financial aid because
this is really rare um but again every
situation is very unique and making your
own research or like making research
with me is very important um I would
like to join MIT engineer master's
program um I have good GPA of 375 which
is the absolute GPA um there is chance
would be considered full assistantship
um you need to score well in GRE and for
getting into MIT you would also need to
take Jerry subject so you when you just
go around 330 340 on Jerry
um and I take Jerry subject your GPA is
is okay if you are strong and
academically strong and you are thinking
that you're gonna take your Jerry um
then yes MIT would be well and yeah um
would be good enough yet MIT would be
good I'm sorry I was reading another
comment um I'm really glad to see you um
I don't Pakistan high school diplomas
discipline USA yes so um United States
except um mostly everything like if you
have a graduation diploma from school no
matter from which country you've got
which country you're coming from the
good acceptance should be fine um thank
you for your amazing videos that you've
been unbelievably helpful thank you for
MA for this comment um I guess a
question is that for med school is it
worth spending here six years with under
you say oh just of the European
countries ah to finish with medical in
for six years instead of the USA okay um
so I guess the question is whether you
want to study in the States or Europe it
depends where you want to stay later
because if you want to stay in the
States and if you come here with a
European diploma then this wouldn't give
you any benefit it would need to take
your medical course again um but um if
you want to do just med school you get
two four years of bashful's in Europe
come here do pre-med school and then do
your med school in the States maybe like
to save money but again if you are um if
your goal is to stay in States and start
with a state if the states is too
expensive then maybe select another
country where you to your medical
education and stay there because even
for med school which is four years in
the States you would have to pay a lot
of money even if you do like your
bachelor's in another country now I can
TOEFL be waived um I told about it if
you have two years of in education in
English in an english-speaking country
then yes they can waive the TOEFL I
understand you but I can't stick English
very well
I need language rip um yeah lingo tricks
are very useful huh um can um I got 107
on TOEFL Wow Congrats jus - it is the
right way to read your name um yeah
only 23 in the speaking section what
should I do um speaking section is one
of the weirdest section sections in
TOEFL and what you need there is just
practice practice and practice by the
way I'm going to be releasing a new
video very soon we're a native speaker
tries to take TOEFL and take um the
speaking part and this I said question 1
question 2 they don't have to do
anything with real life and what you
need to do is actually practice talking
to your computer and what we did on
language we wanted to help you with the
speaking part and we actually listed
native speakers so if you go to linguae
trip calm slash speak um you wouldn't be
able to book 60 minutes with a native
speaker
you would not be able to see him which
is the exact situation that happens to
you and TOEFL you don't see who are you
talking to just talking to a computer
and you get connected to him you don't
see that person you just discuss things
you can ask in question he's gonna ask
you questions so just practice your
English with a native speaker in fact is
more and more asked that native speaker
to ask you all kinds of questions um all
kinds of random questions like for
example um what is your favorite
painting um in 2016 like topics you
would never discuss um so um I'm gonna
leave a link below to you so it's
linguae trip comm / Skype we have
amazing native speakers there right now
who can give you fat feedback about the
way you speak the way you pronounce
words about your accents or signature
comb / to speak I give you the link um
it's one to one in the cake will into a
4-0 in the USA I'm sorry it's I guess
yes but in the UK I know there's ABC
system if it's 101 if its maximum that
is is a goal into 4.0 I mean 20 and tea
soda I'm trying to understand the
question so top MBAs you can go to us
new stop graduate schools Harvard is the
first MBA they are all really good in
consulting finance whatever so east
coast is mostly finance and consulting
West Coast like California mostly about
me C's entrepreneurship so it really
depends where which side you're bound to
MIT is mostly um MBAs like management in
technological companies and Harvard is
very financial very consulting um
concentrated University of Chicago Booth
in Chicago obvious is finding a mostly
financial self or consulting of the top
universities you're asking about the top
I would say Harvard and I would say
Wharton MBA um and Chicago Booth MBA uh
they poor
das not a lot of universities provide
financial aid but some do um I actually
have a neighbor who has received ninety
percent of his tuition wait um in
Harvard MBA um because he's my neighbor
you're gonna see him very soon we just
take a trip together to stand for it to
see a friend graduate so yeah we're
gonna have in you another live stream I
think in a week or two with him and
you're going to be able to ask a
question about his and be his experience
of getting into Harvard um what can I
distance in my country to not take the a
CT and SAT test um nobody takes SAT or a
CT outside the states like it is not a
normal process process because normally
you take your school test but their SAT
and a CT test centers everywhere in the
world if you go to college borg college
board org this is the company that
organizes SATs all over the world and
you would be able to see the list of
cities and I have SATs and initially
like every major city would have SAT at
least one once a month we have a couple
of students who come to the States in
summer to take an SAT preparation course
we have a lot of partners here and so
for example the ticket to uh two months
course preparing for SAT and they take
SAT here in the state because here they
are more often but again if you are
China where you are Hannah Johnson looks
very um American and British I'm sure
there is an SAT TOEFL test center and in
London so sorry I'm not sure from I'm
trying to turn to look at your profile
and see where you're from but and yeah I
get it but yeah if you go to college
board or you will be able to see um
we're not we're the closest test test
Center is three years of undergraduate
degree and most of the us as risks out
four years when to get degree um it
doesn't matter um they do not ask you
for a specific length of the program
they just ask you to prove that you have
your bachelor's degree it doesn't need
to be four years
I was five years um so it's okay okay hi
I am an 11th grader from Romania and I
want to know if it's too late to start
for applying to American universities
now I don't have TOEFL and legal
financial aid if I'm accepted well it's
well it's not too late if you want to
start in September 2018 you can start
right now but you better hurry um I'm a
great student school physics initial in
Olympia
but it's great you took part in it um I
need to know there is possibility for me
to get in I'm not sure about what you've
said right now this is really rough um
but again um you would need to have high
GPA you would need to take your SAT you
would need to take SAT Subject getting
full financial aid for batches is really
tough so we have a couple of students
who have and they went to Columbia they
went to MIT they went to UM Smith's
college they went to UM University of
Florida they went to Purdue University
but these are like um this is a certain
profile of students who have Olympia's
who have high GPA high SAT and really
strong motivation um I hope you will be
able to compare yourself and make the
right decision um about that so how much
should I expect of a scholarship if I
got plus hundred and TOEFL + oh this
again this really depends on the
university um if we look for example um
you remember it was this university with
sorry um I normally again on
consultation consultations I would have
everything in front of me but let me
take a look real quick we had this girl
went to computer science University with
full financial aid um so there is Boston
University um there might be a good for
you they have trustee scholarship which
is a full one and um what else is there
Oh presidential scholarship Florida
International University if your score
1390 on your SAT then you're eligible
for president so
presidential scholarship that calvess um
100% of your costs but actually what
you've told me on your SAT 2,400 is the
old SAT everything right now is new SATs
and 2100 doesn't look like 1390 to me I
mean it's no comparable I think you're a
little lower than that but I'm sorry I
cannot compare the whole score in the
new score because I started doing this
when the new score Caedmon what if I
cannot afford traveling to us for having
an interview for top university um so
here this is the dilemma so if the top
university is inviting you to the
interview and you say that you cannot
afford it um they automatically make a
conclusion that you would not be able to
afford your studies and here they would
need to make a decision where they would
be able to provide your full scholarship
and if they're not they would just
decline your application um they there
have been like sometimes they make
excuses for students who can not travel
but we've never had students who said I
don't I just don't have money to travel
normally they would take loans or they
would travel like for example to MIT or
year and maybe youthfully interview if
you say I cannot travel they would think
that you're not seriously because even
if you get full financially you would
need to pay your deposit which is two
thousand dollars yes they're going to
return it but the deposit is worth of
you like traveling to interview and if
you don't have that and this could
negatively affect your application
because we had a student who didn't want
to travel and we just wrote he couldn't
come and they said so if you don't come
which is stop your application so again
depends on particular situation on how
much the university is actually
interested in you but I've never heard
the university actually sponsoring um a
trip to the interview they could just
Skype um this is like a way out if they
agreed to do Skype ah can a student take
a loan from her home country to finance
education in a foreign country of course
this is what you can also do okay um I
think guys I am about to finish because
this in only lasts one hour again thank
you so much for watching this um I was
really happy to answer your questions
and don't forget that we do that every
Tuesday and I hope to see you next
Tuesday and have fun
have a great week and don't forget to
prepare for your exams and make sure
yeah you're applying to the right
universities and I'll see you in the
next video so I'll see you soon bye